---
created: 2025-07-06 08:00
source: https://dannb.org/blog/2022/obsidian-daily-note-template/
---
tags:: [[+Daily Notes]]

# Sunday, July 06, 2025

<< [[Timestamps/2025/07-July/2025-07-05-Saturday|Yesterday]] | [[Timestamps/2025/07-July/2025-07-07-Monday|Tomorrow]] >>

---
### 📅 Daily Questions

---
# 📝 Notes
- [[chuGoodSoil2025]] for forum: section "winter" "Chu, Jeff. 2025. _Good Soil_. New York: Convergent."
	- Our discussion started with the observation that sometimes our families don't recognize our differences, that we have changed.
	- Who knows us as we really are.
	- "Prosperity Gospel" ... bad theology #prosperity-gospel 
- + Bob Fitzpatrick's post ---  [**Robert L. Fitzpatrick**](https://www.facebook.com/robert.l.fitzpatrick?__cft__[0]=AZVHGcr1eRzLM8xocD7RfgE5zk6lcbHiGP1gX8Gr91GHX-zgd7rreQz-bw-4JqJ8dloKbQMHPZq-y0xRrH6Qqc9QUTLs-Dk-mXYQrWV99BSFBH0CDEB7PR9i4kLgXu_ZQMAvuJelG_782kQSYJ-_Bi-RX9CC0trAYAKrXJyEv3wjnQ&__tn__=-UC%2CP-R)  #resistance #church-state The fact that government officials are referring to a migrant detention center as “Alligator Alcatraz” is very telling. Jokes about people being caged and dying in swamps is consciously evil. One might call it “dystopian,” but it further reflects the “banality of evil” that is becoming normative in our government. With threats to deport citizens and the rise of loyalty requirements of elected officials, we have changed as a society. Ignoring suffering and delighting in other’s pain has become policy. 
> “Almighty God, who created us in your own image: Grant us grace fearlessly to contend against evil and to make no peace with oppression; and, that we may reverently use our freedom, help us to employ it in the maintenance of justice in our communities, our nation, and among the nations, to the glory of your holy Name; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever. Amen.”


---
### Notes created today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.cday = date("2025-07-06") SORT file.ctime asc
```

### Notes last touched today
```dataview
List FROM "" WHERE file.mday = date("2025-07-06") SORT file.mtime asc
```
